README.md, before:

<div align="center">

🌟 **If you find this project useful, please consider giving it a star!** 🌟

</div>

<p align="center"><img align="center" src="https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX/assets/6917405/c81061d5-0310-4574-a91d-1ea155b567c0" alt="OGameX logo" /></p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://main.ogamex.dev">Live demo 🚀</a> • <a href="#installation">Installation 📦</a> • <a href="https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md">Contributing 💻</a>
</p>


<p align="center">
<strong>Open-source OGame redesign clone</strong>
</p>

<div align="center">

[<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/lanedirt/OGameX?include_prereleases&logo=github">](https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX/releases)
[<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/lanedirt/OGameX/run-docker-compose-prod.yml?label=docker-compose%20build">](https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX/actions/workflows/run-docker-compose-prod.yml)
[<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/lanedirt/OGameX/run-tests-docker-compose.yml?label=tests">](https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX/actions/workflows/run-tests-docker-compose.yml)
[<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/lanedirt/OGameX/run-phpstan-code-analysis.yml?label=static%20code%20analysis">](https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX/actions/workflows/run-phpstan-code-analysis.yml)
[<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/lanedirt/OGameX/run-laravel-pint-code-style-checker.yml?label=psr-12%20code%20style">](https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX/actions/workflows/run-laravel-pint-code-style-checker.yml)

</div>

<div align="center">

[![good first issues open](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/lanedirt/OGameX/good%20first%20issue.svg?logo=github)](https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A"good+first+issue")
[<img alt="Discord" src="https://img.shields.io/discord/1278814992988110922?logo=discord&logoColor=%237289da&label=join%20discord%20chat&color=%237289da">](https://discord.gg/HJ4QRxxB5N)




</div>


OGameX is an open-source OGame redesign clone. This clone is built fully from scratch using the Laravel 12.x framework and uses modern PHP practices. All major functionality is covered by unit and feature tests which automatically run on every build.

We welcome any and all contributions to this project! If you want to help out, please read the [contributing](#contributing) section. If you have any questions you can [join the OGameX discord](https://discord.com/invite/HJ4QRxxB5N) to get in touch with the maintainers and other contributors.

Disclaimer: this project is purely fan-based and does not contain any commercial features. All backend code is written from scratch. The rights and concepts for the artwork and frontend belong to the original creators: GameForge GmbH. Support them by checking out the official version: https://ogame.org.


[![Ask DeepWiki](https://deepwiki.com/badge.svg)](https://deepwiki.com/kroryan/OGameX)

## 🖥️ Live demo
- Main branch (nightly builds): [https://main.ogamex.dev](https://main.ogamex.dev)
- Latest stable release **(0.13.0)**: [https://release.ogamex.dev](https://release.ogamex.dev)

## 📝 Table of Contents
- [1. Example screenshots](#screenshots)
- [2. About the author](#author)
- [3. Goal](#goal)
- [4. Roadmap](#roadmap)
  - [a) Upcoming Features](#upcoming-features)
- [5. Contributing](#contributing)
- [6. Disclaimer](#disclaimer)
- [7. Installation](#installation)
  - [a) Development: Install OGameX using Docker](#development)
  - [b) Production: Install OGameX using Docker](#production)
- [8. Upgrade](#upgrade)
- [9. Support](#support)
- [10. Sponsorship](#sponsorship)
- [11. License](#license)
- [12. OGameX related projects](#related-projects)

## <a name="screenshots"></a> 🖥️ 1. Example screenshots


<img width="1142" alt="Screenshot 2024-10-06 at 15 41 14" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7f9041ad-82cd-42b0-acd1-0036c0f49da2">
<img width="1129" alt="Screenshot 2024-10-06 at 15 41 45" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d8a9e612-1433-4750-9f5f-05246f642740">
<img width="1142" alt="Screenshot 2024-10-06 at 15 42 05" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/aaf9ede8-0aab-4985-87f5-3016eef4fa5f">
<img width="1132" alt="Screenshot 2024-10-06 at 15 42 44" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cb112ca3-73d5-42ba-98f1-be844533be41">
<img width="1147" alt="Screenshot 2024-10-06 at 15 43 18" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d90a0651-c841-4f3a-a119-8abde4c45b90">

## <a name="author"></a> ✨ 2. About the author

My ([@lanedirt](https://github.com/lanedirt)) journey into software development began in 2007 at the age of 14 when I discovered the source code for Ugamela, an early open-source PHP clone of OGame. I really liked running my own browser game server and dedicated myself to modifying this version and translating it to Dutch, leading to the launch of OGameX.nl. This server, active from 2007 to 2009, nurtured a small yet engaged community. This experience not only sparked my passion for software development but also laid the groundwork for my professional career. OGame has always held a special place in my heart, which is why now, 15 years later, I've decided to return to it and create this open-source clone from the ground up.

## <a name="goal"></a> ✨ 3. Goal

The primary goal of this fan-based project is to engineer a faithful rendition of OGame, specifically reflecting its state prior to the Lifeforms update introduced in 2020. This initiative, purely fan-based and non-commercial, is pursued strictly for educational purposes.

## <a name="roadmap"></a> 🖥️ 4. Roadmap

OGameX is under active development with a lot of core features already implemented and working:

- Planets / buildings / research / shipyard / defense / galaxy / highscores / messages
- Fleet dispatch missions (transport, deployment, colonisation, espionage, attack, recycle, moon destruction)
- Missile attacks
- Battle engine
  - Rust version for high performance via PHP FFI (up to 200x faster compared to PHP)
  - PHP version as fall-back
- Moon
  - Moon creation through debris field after battle
  - Moon buildings, phalanx, jump gate
- Admin panel
- Expedition mission with various outcomes
- Basic dark matter features (non-commercial)
- **Playerbots System**
  - Automated AI players with customizable personalities
  - Smart decision-making for building, research, fleet management, and attacks
  - Admin panel for monitoring and controlling bots
  - Full activity logging and statistics
  - See [Playerbots System](#playerbots) for more details

### <a name="playerbots"></a> Playerbots System

OGameX includes a comprehensive playerbots system that allows you to create automated AI players. These bots can play autonomously, making intelligent decisions based on their personality and configuration.

#### Features

- **9 Personality Types**: Each bot has a unique personality that affects its decision-making
  - Aggressive, Defensive, Economic, Balanced, Raider, Turtle, Scientist, Diplomat, Explorer

- **Smart Decision Making**:
  - Building prioritization based on personality and level curves
  - Technology research priority system
  - Profitable target finding with power comparison
  - Fleet composition based on personality
  - Resource management with save percentages

- **Target Selection**: Bots can prefer different types of targets
  - Random targets
  - Weaker players
  - Richer players
  - Players with similar strength

- **Advanced Configuration** (JSON):
  - Activity schedules (specific hours and days)
  - Custom action probabilities
  - Economy settings (resource saving thresholds)
  - Fleet settings (attack percentages, ship preferences)
  - Behavior flags (disable specific actions, set minimums)

- **Admin Panel** (`/admin/bots`):
  - Create, edit, and delete bots
  - View detailed logs of all bot actions
  - View combined logs for all bots
  - Bulk-create bot accounts with a default password
  - Force specific actions (build, fleet, research, attack)
  - View global statistics and activity charts
  - Toggle bots on/off
  - Assign bot mode to a player account

- **Player Bot Mode**:
  - Any user account can be toggled to act as a bot
  - Users can select personality and review their own bot logs
  - Useful for testing and passive play

- **Scheduler Commands**: Process all active bots periodically + emergency threat checks
  ```bash
  docker compose exec -T ogamex-app php artisan ogamex:scheduler:process-bots
  docker compose exec -T ogamex-app php artisan ogamex:scheduler:process-bot-emergencies
  ```

#### Usage

1. Create a bot from the admin panel (`/admin/bots/create`)
2. Configure its personality and target preferences
3. The scheduler will automatically process active bots every 5 minutes (configurable)
4. Monitor bot activity through the logs and stats pages

For detailed documentation, see [docs/guia-bots.md](docs/guia-bots.md) (Spanish).

### <a name="upcoming-features"></a> Upcoming Features

The next major upcoming features that are being worked on:

- Improved fleet mission processing via worker queue
- Alliances
- ACS fleet dispatch missions
- All dark matter features (non-commercial)
- Multi-language (making all in-game strings translatable)

## <a name="contributing"></a> 🚀 5. Contributing

Contributions are warmly welcomed, whether in development, testing, or spreading the word. Feel free to submit pull requests or contact me for any other contributions.

A good starting point are issues labeled as "good first issue".

[![good first issues open](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/lanedirt/OGameX/good%20first%20issue.svg?logo=github)](https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A"good+first+issue")

Read the [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) file for more information.

## <a name="disclaimer"></a> 📓 6. Disclaimer

This project is a non-commercial hobby project. All rights and concepts related to OGame are owned by GameForge GmbH. We encourage supporters to try the official OGame at https://ogame.org to support its creators.

## <a name="installation"></a> 🖥️ 7. Installation
The recommended way to install OGameX is by running the bundled Docker containers. This takes care of all the dependencies and is the easiest way to get started.

If you instead wish to install OGameX manually, see the list of requirements for Laravel 12.x and how to deploy manually to a server here: https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/deployment.

### <a name="development"></a> a) Install for local development
For local development use the default docker-compose file that is included in this repository. This configuration is optimized for development and includes several tools that are useful for debugging and testing.

Please note that performance of the development mode is slow on Windows (compared to MacOS/Linux) due to overhead of running Docker on Windows. Loading pages with development mode enabled can take multiple seconds on Windows. If you want to run OGameX on Windows, I advise to use the production mode instead. One of the main differences is that the production configuration enables PHP OPcache which speeds up the application, but this also means that the PHP files are not updated (instantly) when you change them. This makes it less suitable for development.

1. Clone the repository.
  ```
  $ git clone https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX.git
  $ cd OGameX
  ```

2. Launch the project using Docker Compose:
  ```
  $ docker compose up -d
  ```
  > The default setup binds to ports 80/443. Modify `docker-compose.yml` if needed. PhpMyAdmin is also included for database management and is bound to port 8080. If you don't create a .env, the default .env.example will be copied to create it.

**Important:** it can take up to 10 minutes for the `ogamex-app` container to start, this is because of composer initialization and Rust compiling that happens on the first run. Please be patient and wait for all containers to have fully started.

After the docker containers have started, visit http://localhost to access OGameX.

Create a new account to start using OGameX. The first account created will be automatically assigned the admin role.

> Note: if you need to run manual `php artisan` commands, you can SSH into the `ogamex-app` container with the `docker compose exec -it ogamex-app bash` command.

### <a name="production"></a> b) Install for production
For production there is a separate docker-compose file called `docker-compose.prod.yml`. This configuration contains
several performance optimizations and security settings that are not present in the development configuration.

***Caution:*** the production configuration is not yet fully optimized and should be used with caution. As an example, the database root user uses a default password which should be changed to something unique. You should review all settings before deploying this project to a publicly accessible server.

The instructions below are for Linux. OGameX should also work under Docker for Windows but the steps might be a little bit different.

1. Clone the git repo.
  ```
  $ git clone https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX.git
  $ cd OGameX
  ```

2. Copy `.env.example-prod` to `.env`.
  ```
  $ cp .env.example-prod .env
  ```

3. Launch the project using Docker Compose:
  ```
  $ docker compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d --build --force-recreate
  ```

  > The default setup binds to ports 80/443, to change it modify `docker-compose.yml`. PhpMyAdmin is also included for database management and is bound to port 8080, however to access it you need to explicitly specify your IP addresses via `./docker/phpmyadmin/.htaccess` for safety purposes.

**Important:** it can take up to 10 minutes for the `ogamex-app` container to start, this is because of composer initialization and Rust compiling that happens on the first run. Please be patient and wait for all containers to have fully started.

After the docker containers have started, visit https://localhost to access OGameX.

Create a new account to start using OGameX. The first account created will be automatically assigned the admin role.

> Note: The production version runs in forced-HTTPS (redirect) mode by default using a self-signed SSL certificate. If you want to access the application via HTTP, open `.env` and change `APP_ENV` from `production` to `local`.

## <a name="upgrade"></a> 🖥️ 8. Upgrade and misc instructions

### Upgrade OGameX to a new version
If you want to upgrade an existing installation of OGameX to a new version, follow these steps:

1. Stop the existing containers:
  ```
  $ docker compose down
  ```
  2. Pull the latest changes from the main branch or checkout the new release tag:
  ```
  $ git pull origin main
  ```
  -- or --
  ```
  $ git checkout 0.13.0 # replace with the latest release tag
  ```
  3. Rebuild and start the containers:

  **For development:**
  ```
  $ docker compose up -d --build --force-recreate --remove-orphans
  ```
  **For production:**
  ```
  $ docker compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d --build --force-recreate --remove-orphans
  ```
  > When the docker containers are started, the entrypoint script in `./docker/entrypoint.sh` will automatically run the appropriate laravel install commands to upgrade the database schema and refresh the cache. Note that depending on the migrations this might take a short while. After the containers are started, you can visit the application at `https://localhost` (or http://localhost) to check if the upgrade was successful. If you run into any issues, please check the logs for more information or open an issue on GitHub.

### Assigning admin role
By default, the first registered user is assigned the admin role which can see the admin bar and is able to change server settings. You can also assign the admin role manually via the command line:
  ```
  $ php artisan ogamex:admin:assign-role {username}
  ```
  To remove the admin role from a user, use the following command:
  ```
  $ php artisan ogamex:admin:remove-role {username}
  ```

## <a name="support"></a> 📞 9. Support

Did you encounter issues in this project? Please open a ticket on GitHub and we'll try to help you out as soon as possible.

## <a name="sponsorship"></a> 💰 10. Sponsorship
We thank the following parties for sponsoring this project:

<table>
  <tr>
    <td align="center" width="200px">
      <a href="https://www.jetbrains.com/">
        <img src="https://resources.jetbrains.com/storage/products/company/brand/logos/jb_beam.svg" width="100" alt="JetBrains Logo">
      </a>
      <br>
      <strong>JetBrains</strong>
      <br>
      Providing free open-source licenses for PhpStorm, WebStorm, and DataGrip.
    </td>
    <td align="center" width="200px">
      <!-- Placeholder for future sponsor -->
    </td>
    <td align="center" width="200px">
      <!-- Placeholder for future sponsor -->
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

Interested in supporting OGameX? We welcome sponsorships of all sizes! Your support helps us maintain and improve this open-source project. Please get in touch with us via GitHub or Discord to discuss sponsorship opportunities.

## <a name="license"></a> 📰 11. License

The OGameX Laravel source code is open-source software licensed under the MIT license. See the LICENSE file for more details. All rights and concepts related to OGame are owned by GameForge GmbH.

## <a name="related-projects"></a> 🌍 12. OGameX related projects

The following projects either host OGameX servers or are based on the OGameX core.

*Note: these projects are maintained independently and are not affiliated with the OGameX project or its maintainers in any way.*

| Project Name | Description | Link | Type |
|-------------|-------------|------|------|
| MWarfare | MWarfare is derived from the OGameX project, it takes the game forward using modern technology and game design to create a more realistic version of OGame that the community has long deserved. | https://mwarfare.com/ | Not Open Source
| OGameX Combat Simulator | High-performance OGame combat simulator based on the OGameX Rust battle engine. Features a blazing fast Rust-powered WASM engine (~200x faster than PHP), client-side calculations that work offline, and accurate battle simulations based on OGameX formulas. | [GitHub](https://github.com/rbardtke/OgameX-Combat-Simulator) | Open Source (MIT) |
| Space Rivals | Built on top of the OGameX core with many different customizations and features. | https://space-rivals.net | Not Open Source |

Do you want your own OGameX-related project to be listed here? Create an issue in the [GitHub issues page](https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX/issues) and provide details about your project.

Commit message:

Add quick start admin account steps

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

🌟 **If you find this project useful, please consider giving it a star!** 🌟

</div>

<p align="center"><img align="center" src="https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX/assets/6917405/c81061d5-0310-4574-a91d-1ea155b567c0" alt="OGameX logo" /></p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://main.ogamex.dev">Live demo 🚀</a> • <a href="#installation">Installation 📦</a> • <a href="https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md">Contributing 💻</a>
</p>


<p align="center">
<strong>Open-source OGame redesign clone</strong>
</p>

<div align="center">

[<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/lanedirt/OGameX?include_prereleases&logo=github">](https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX/releases)
[<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/lanedirt/OGameX/run-docker-compose-prod.yml?label=docker-compose%20build">](https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX/actions/workflows/run-docker-compose-prod.yml)
[<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/lanedirt/OGameX/run-tests-docker-compose.yml?label=tests">](https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX/actions/workflows/run-tests-docker-compose.yml)
[<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/lanedirt/OGameX/run-phpstan-code-analysis.yml?label=static%20code%20analysis">](https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX/actions/workflows/run-phpstan-code-analysis.yml)
[<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/lanedirt/OGameX/run-laravel-pint-code-style-checker.yml?label=psr-12%20code%20style">](https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX/actions/workflows/run-laravel-pint-code-style-checker.yml)

</div>

<div align="center">

[![good first issues open](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/lanedirt/OGameX/good%20first%20issue.svg?logo=github)](https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A"good+first+issue")
[<img alt="Discord" src="https://img.shields.io/discord/1278814992988110922?logo=discord&logoColor=%237289da&label=join%20discord%20chat&color=%237289da">](https://discord.gg/HJ4QRxxB5N)




</div>


OGameX is an open-source OGame redesign clone. This clone is built fully from scratch using the Laravel 12.x framework and uses modern PHP practices. All major functionality is covered by unit and feature tests which automatically run on every build.

We welcome any and all contributions to this project! If you want to help out, please read the [contributing](#contributing) section. If you have any questions you can [join the OGameX discord](https://discord.com/invite/HJ4QRxxB5N) to get in touch with the maintainers and other contributors.

Disclaimer: this project is purely fan-based and does not contain any commercial features. All backend code is written from scratch. The rights and concepts for the artwork and frontend belong to the original creators: GameForge GmbH. Support them by checking out the official version: https://ogame.org.


[![Ask DeepWiki](https://deepwiki.com/badge.svg)](https://deepwiki.com/kroryan/OGameX)

## 🖥️ Live demo
- Main branch (nightly builds): [https://main.ogamex.dev](https://main.ogamex.dev)
- Latest stable release **(0.13.0)**: [https://release.ogamex.dev](https://release.ogamex.dev)

## 📝 Table of Contents
- [0. Quick Start (First Admin Account)](#quick-start)
- [1. Example screenshots](#screenshots)
- [2. About the author](#author)
- [3. Goal](#goal)
- [4. Roadmap](#roadmap)
  - [a) Upcoming Features](#upcoming-features)
- [5. Contributing](#contributing)
- [6. Disclaimer](#disclaimer)
- [7. Installation](#installation)
  - [a) Development: Install OGameX using Docker](#development)
  - [b) Production: Install OGameX using Docker](#production)
- [8. Upgrade](#upgrade)
- [9. Support](#support)
- [10. Sponsorship](#sponsorship)
- [11. License](#license)
- [12. OGameX related projects](#related-projects)

## <a name="quick-start"></a> ✅ 0. Quick Start (First Admin Account)

If you are running locally with Docker and need the first admin account:

1) Start the stack (DB + app):
```bash
docker compose up -d
```

2) Run migrations:
```bash
docker compose exec -T ogamex-app php artisan migrate --force
```

3) Create your first admin account.
The first non-Legor user created will automatically get the admin role.

Option A: register in the UI (recommended).
Open the app in your browser, register a new user, and the first account will become admin.

Option B: create via CLI:
```bash
docker compose exec -T ogamex-app php artisan tinker --execute='$email="admin@example.com"; $pass="ChangeMe123!"; $creator=app(\OGame\Actions\Fortify\CreateNewUser::class); $creator->create(["email"=>$email,"password"=>$pass]);'
```

4) Log in and open `/admin` to access the admin panel.

## <a name="screenshots"></a> 🖥️ 1. Example screenshots


<img width="1142" alt="Screenshot 2024-10-06 at 15 41 14" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7f9041ad-82cd-42b0-acd1-0036c0f49da2">
<img width="1129" alt="Screenshot 2024-10-06 at 15 41 45" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d8a9e612-1433-4750-9f5f-05246f642740">
<img width="1142" alt="Screenshot 2024-10-06 at 15 42 05" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/aaf9ede8-0aab-4985-87f5-3016eef4fa5f">
<img width="1132" alt="Screenshot 2024-10-06 at 15 42 44" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cb112ca3-73d5-42ba-98f1-be844533be41">
<img width="1147" alt="Screenshot 2024-10-06 at 15 43 18" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d90a0651-c841-4f3a-a119-8abde4c45b90">

## <a name="author"></a> ✨ 2. About the author

My ([@lanedirt](https://github.com/lanedirt)) journey into software development began in 2007 at the age of 14 when I discovered the source code for Ugamela, an early open-source PHP clone of OGame. I really liked running my own browser game server and dedicated myself to modifying this version and translating it to Dutch, leading to the launch of OGameX.nl. This server, active from 2007 to 2009, nurtured a small yet engaged community. This experience not only sparked my passion for software development but also laid the groundwork for my professional career. OGame has always held a special place in my heart, which is why now, 15 years later, I've decided to return to it and create this open-source clone from the ground up.

## <a name="goal"></a> ✨ 3. Goal

The primary goal of this fan-based project is to engineer a faithful rendition of OGame, specifically reflecting its state prior to the Lifeforms update introduced in 2020. This initiative, purely fan-based and non-commercial, is pursued strictly for educational purposes.

## <a name="roadmap"></a> 🖥️ 4. Roadmap

OGameX is under active development with a lot of core features already implemented and working:

- Planets / buildings / research / shipyard / defense / galaxy / highscores / messages
- Fleet dispatch missions (transport, deployment, colonisation, espionage, attack, recycle, moon destruction)
- Missile attacks
- Battle engine
  - Rust version for high performance via PHP FFI (up to 200x faster compared to PHP)
  - PHP version as fall-back
- Moon
  - Moon creation through debris field after battle
  - Moon buildings, phalanx, jump gate
- Admin panel
- Expedition mission with various outcomes
- Basic dark matter features (non-commercial)
- **Playerbots System**
  - Automated AI players with customizable personalities
  - Smart decision-making for building, research, fleet management, and attacks
  - Admin panel for monitoring and controlling bots
  - Full activity logging and statistics
  - See [Playerbots System](#playerbots) for more details

### <a name="playerbots"></a> Playerbots System

OGameX includes a comprehensive playerbots system that allows you to create automated AI players. These bots can play autonomously, making intelligent decisions based on their personality and configuration.

#### Features

- **9 Personality Types**: Each bot has a unique personality that affects its decision-making
  - Aggressive, Defensive, Economic, Balanced, Raider, Turtle, Scientist, Diplomat, Explorer

- **Smart Decision Making**:
  - Building prioritization based on personality and level curves
  - Technology research priority system
  - Profitable target finding with power comparison
  - Fleet composition based on personality
  - Resource management with save percentages

- **Target Selection**: Bots can prefer different types of targets
  - Random targets
  - Weaker players
  - Richer players
  - Players with similar strength

- **Advanced Configuration** (JSON):
  - Activity schedules (specific hours and days)
  - Custom action probabilities
  - Economy settings (resource saving thresholds)
  - Fleet settings (attack percentages, ship preferences)
  - Behavior flags (disable specific actions, set minimums)

- **Admin Panel** (`/admin/bots`):
  - Create, edit, and delete bots
  - View detailed logs of all bot actions
  - View combined logs for all bots
  - Bulk-create bot accounts with a default password
  - Force specific actions (build, fleet, research, attack)
  - View global statistics and activity charts
  - Toggle bots on/off
  - Assign bot mode to a player account

- **Player Bot Mode**:
  - Any user account can be toggled to act as a bot
  - Users can select personality and review their own bot logs
  - Useful for testing and passive play

- **Scheduler Commands**: Process all active bots periodically + emergency threat checks
  ```bash
  docker compose exec -T ogamex-app php artisan ogamex:scheduler:process-bots
  docker compose exec -T ogamex-app php artisan ogamex:scheduler:process-bot-emergencies
  ```

#### Usage

1. Create a bot from the admin panel (`/admin/bots/create`)
2. Configure its personality and target preferences
3. The scheduler will automatically process active bots every 5 minutes (configurable)
4. Monitor bot activity through the logs and stats pages

For detailed documentation, see [docs/guia-bots.md](docs/guia-bots.md) (Spanish).

### <a name="upcoming-features"></a> Upcoming Features

The next major upcoming features that are being worked on:

- Improved fleet mission processing via worker queue
- Alliances
- ACS fleet dispatch missions
- All dark matter features (non-commercial)
- Multi-language (making all in-game strings translatable)

## <a name="contributing"></a> 🚀 5. Contributing

Contributions are warmly welcomed, whether in development, testing, or spreading the word. Feel free to submit pull requests or contact me for any other contributions.

A good starting point are issues labeled as "good first issue".

[![good first issues open](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/lanedirt/OGameX/good%20first%20issue.svg?logo=github)](https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A"good+first+issue")

Read the [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) file for more information.

## <a name="disclaimer"></a> 📓 6. Disclaimer

This project is a non-commercial hobby project. All rights and concepts related to OGame are owned by GameForge GmbH. We encourage supporters to try the official OGame at https://ogame.org to support its creators.

## <a name="installation"></a> 🖥️ 7. Installation
The recommended way to install OGameX is by running the bundled Docker containers. This takes care of all the dependencies and is the easiest way to get started.

If you instead wish to install OGameX manually, see the list of requirements for Laravel 12.x and how to deploy manually to a server here: https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/deployment.

### <a name="development"></a> a) Install for local development
For local development use the default docker-compose file that is included in this repository. This configuration is optimized for development and includes several tools that are useful for debugging and testing.

Please note that performance of the development mode is slow on Windows (compared to MacOS/Linux) due to overhead of running Docker on Windows. Loading pages with development mode enabled can take multiple seconds on Windows. If you want to run OGameX on Windows, I advise to use the production mode instead. One of the main differences is that the production configuration enables PHP OPcache which speeds up the application, but this also means that the PHP files are not updated (instantly) when you change them. This makes it less suitable for development.

1. Clone the repository.
  ```
  $ git clone https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX.git
  $ cd OGameX
  ```

2. Launch the project using Docker Compose:
  ```
  $ docker compose up -d
  ```
  > The default setup binds to ports 80/443. Modify `docker-compose.yml` if needed. PhpMyAdmin is also included for database management and is bound to port 8080. If you don't create a .env, the default .env.example will be copied to create it.

**Important:** it can take up to 10 minutes for the `ogamex-app` container to start, this is because of composer initialization and Rust compiling that happens on the first run. Please be patient and wait for all containers to have fully started.

After the docker containers have started, visit http://localhost to access OGameX.

Create a new account to start using OGameX. The first account created will be automatically assigned the admin role.

> Note: if you need to run manual `php artisan` commands, you can SSH into the `ogamex-app` container with the `docker compose exec -it ogamex-app bash` command.

### <a name="production"></a> b) Install for production
For production there is a separate docker-compose file called `docker-compose.prod.yml`. This configuration contains
several performance optimizations and security settings that are not present in the development configuration.

***Caution:*** the production configuration is not yet fully optimized and should be used with caution. As an example, the database root user uses a default password which should be changed to something unique. You should review all settings before deploying this project to a publicly accessible server.

The instructions below are for Linux. OGameX should also work under Docker for Windows but the steps might be a little bit different.

1. Clone the git repo.
  ```
  $ git clone https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX.git
  $ cd OGameX
  ```

2. Copy `.env.example-prod` to `.env`.
  ```
  $ cp .env.example-prod .env
  ```

3. Launch the project using Docker Compose:
  ```
  $ docker compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d --build --force-recreate
  ```

  > The default setup binds to ports 80/443, to change it modify `docker-compose.yml`. PhpMyAdmin is also included for database management and is bound to port 8080, however to access it you need to explicitly specify your IP addresses via `./docker/phpmyadmin/.htaccess` for safety purposes.

**Important:** it can take up to 10 minutes for the `ogamex-app` container to start, this is because of composer initialization and Rust compiling that happens on the first run. Please be patient and wait for all containers to have fully started.

After the docker containers have started, visit https://localhost to access OGameX.

Create a new account to start using OGameX. The first account created will be automatically assigned the admin role.

> Note: The production version runs in forced-HTTPS (redirect) mode by default using a self-signed SSL certificate. If you want to access the application via HTTP, open `.env` and change `APP_ENV` from `production` to `local`.

## <a name="upgrade"></a> 🖥️ 8. Upgrade and misc instructions

### Upgrade OGameX to a new version
If you want to upgrade an existing installation of OGameX to a new version, follow these steps:

1. Stop the existing containers:
  ```
  $ docker compose down
  ```
  2. Pull the latest changes from the main branch or checkout the new release tag:
  ```
  $ git pull origin main
  ```
  -- or --
  ```
  $ git checkout 0.13.0 # replace with the latest release tag
  ```
  3. Rebuild and start the containers:

  **For development:**
  ```
  $ docker compose up -d --build --force-recreate --remove-orphans
  ```
  **For production:**
  ```
  $ docker compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d --build --force-recreate --remove-orphans
  ```
  > When the docker containers are started, the entrypoint script in `./docker/entrypoint.sh` will automatically run the appropriate laravel install commands to upgrade the database schema and refresh the cache. Note that depending on the migrations this might take a short while. After the containers are started, you can visit the application at `https://localhost` (or http://localhost) to check if the upgrade was successful. If you run into any issues, please check the logs for more information or open an issue on GitHub.

### Assigning admin role
By default, the first registered user is assigned the admin role which can see the admin bar and is able to change server settings. You can also assign the admin role manually via the command line:
  ```
  $ php artisan ogamex:admin:assign-role {username}
  ```
  To remove the admin role from a user, use the following command:
  ```
  $ php artisan ogamex:admin:remove-role {username}
  ```

## <a name="support"></a> 📞 9. Support

Did you encounter issues in this project? Please open a ticket on GitHub and we'll try to help you out as soon as possible.

## <a name="sponsorship"></a> 💰 10. Sponsorship
We thank the following parties for sponsoring this project:

<table>
  <tr>
    <td align="center" width="200px">
      <a href="https://www.jetbrains.com/">
        <img src="https://resources.jetbrains.com/storage/products/company/brand/logos/jb_beam.svg" width="100" alt="JetBrains Logo">
      </a>
      <br>
      <strong>JetBrains</strong>
      <br>
      Providing free open-source licenses for PhpStorm, WebStorm, and DataGrip.
    </td>
    <td align="center" width="200px">
      <!-- Placeholder for future sponsor -->
    </td>
    <td align="center" width="200px">
      <!-- Placeholder for future sponsor -->
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

Interested in supporting OGameX? We welcome sponsorships of all sizes! Your support helps us maintain and improve this open-source project. Please get in touch with us via GitHub or Discord to discuss sponsorship opportunities.

## <a name="license"></a> 📰 11. License

The OGameX Laravel source code is open-source software licensed under the MIT license. See the LICENSE file for more details. All rights and concepts related to OGame are owned by GameForge GmbH.

## <a name="related-projects"></a> 🌍 12. OGameX related projects

The following projects either host OGameX servers or are based on the OGameX core.

*Note: these projects are maintained independently and are not affiliated with the OGameX project or its maintainers in any way.*

| Project Name | Description | Link | Type |
|-------------|-------------|------|------|
| MWarfare | MWarfare is derived from the OGameX project, it takes the game forward using modern technology and game design to create a more realistic version of OGame that the community has long deserved. | https://mwarfare.com/ | Not Open Source
| OGameX Combat Simulator | High-performance OGame combat simulator based on the OGameX Rust battle engine. Features a blazing fast Rust-powered WASM engine (~200x faster than PHP), client-side calculations that work offline, and accurate battle simulations based on OGameX formulas. | [GitHub](https://github.com/rbardtke/OgameX-Combat-Simulator) | Open Source (MIT) |
| Space Rivals | Built on top of the OGameX core with many different customizations and features. | https://space-rivals.net | Not Open Source |

Do you want your own OGameX-related project to be listed here? Create an issue in the [GitHub issues page](https://github.com/lanedirt/OGameX/issues) and provide details about your project.
